My mom is from Vizag. Visakhapatnam (also known as Vizag is the proposed executive capital of the Indian state of Andhra Pradesh. It is also the most populated and largest city of Andhra Pradesh.[14] It lies between the Eastern Ghats and the coast of the Bay of Bengal.[15][16] It is the second largest city in the east coast of India after Chennai and also the fourth largest city in South India. It is one of the four smart cities of Andhra Pradesh selected under Smart Cities Mission. It also serves as the headquarters of Visakhapatnam district With an estimated output of $43.5 billion, the city is the ninth largest contributor to India's overall Gross domestic product as of 2016. In 2020, Visakhapatnam emerged as the finalist in the World Smart City Awards under Living and Inclusion category.
The city is home to some reputed Central and State educational institutions of the state namely Andhra University (AU), Andhra Medical College (AMC), Indian Institute of Management (IIM), Indian Institute of Petroleum and Energy (IIPE), Damodaram Sanjivayya National Law University (DSNLU), Indian Maritime University (IMU), National Institute of Oceanography, India. Visakhapatnam serves as the headquarters for the Indian Navy's Eastern Naval Command. The city also serves as the zonal headquarters of South Coast Railway Zone (SCoR). The city is also home to the oldest shipyard and the only natural harbour on the east coast of India. Visakhapatnam Port is the fifth-busiest cargo port in India. The city is a major tourist destination and is particularly known for its beaches, buddhist sites and natural beauty. It has been nicknamed as the "City of Destiny" and the "Jewel of the East Coast" for the same reason too. As per the Swachh Survekshan rankings of 2020, it is the 9th cleanest city in India (in the category of cities having more than 10 lakh population in India.)

The primary and secondary school education is imparted by government, aided and private schools, under the School Education Department of the state.[158][159] As per the school information report for the academic year 2016–17, urban Visakhapatnam had 1,44,268 (Western: 144,268) students[160] enrolled in 434 schools.[161] The Central Board of Secondary Education, Secondary School Certificate or the Indian Certificate of Secondary Education are the different types of syllabus followed by different schools. The medium of instruction followed by schools are English and Telugu.[162] The St. Aloysius Anglo Indian Boys High School is the oldest school in the city to have established in the year 1847.[163] The Visakhapatnam District Central Library is supported by the government and is located at Dwaraka Nagar.[164][165]


